MongoDB
	-Document-orirnted NoSQL database.
	-Schema-free based on Binary JSON;BSON
	-Organized in group of Documents->Collections
	-Auto-Sharding in order to scale horizontally
	-Simple query language.Rich,document-based queries.
	-Open Source (GNU AGPL v3.0.)
No real schema is enforced:
	You can have different fields in every document if you want to
	No single "key" as in other databases
		But you can create indices on any fields you want, or even combinations of fields.
		If you want to "shard",then you must do so on some index.
	Results in a lot of flexibility
		But with great power comes great responsibility
Replication Sets:
	Single-master
	Maintains backups copies of your database instance.
		Secondaries can elect a new primary within seconds if your primary goes down.
		But make sure your operation log is long enough to give you time to recover the primary when it comes back.  
Replica Set Quirks
	A majority of the servers in your set must agree on the primary
		Even numbers of servers(like 2) don't work well
	Don't want to spend money on 3 servers? You can set up 'arbiter' node
		But only one
	Apps must know about enough serers in replica set to be able to reach one to learn who's primary
	Replicas only address durability, not your ability to scale.
		Well unless you can take advantage of reading from secondaries -which generally isn't recommended
		And your DB will still go into read-only mode for a bit while new primary is elected.
	Delayed secondaries can be set up as insurance against pepople doing dumb things
Sharding Quirks
	Auto-sharding somtimes does't work
		Slipt storms, mongos progreess restarted too often
	You nust have 3 config servers
		Anf if any one goes down,your DB is down
		THis is on top of the singe-master desing of replica sets
	MongoDB's loose document model can be at odds with effective sharding
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Tutorials Point:
	https://www.tutorialspoint.com/mongodb/index.htm
	MongoDB is an open-source document database and leading NoSQL database.
	Written in C++.
 MongoDb Overview
	MongoDB is a cross-platform,document oriented database that provides,high performance,high availblility, and easy scalability.
	MongoDB works on concept of collection and document.
	A single MongoDB server typically has multiple databases.
	Collection is a group of MongoDB documents quivalent of an RDBMS table.Collection exits within a single database.Collections do not enforce a schema.
 Document
	A document is a set of key-value pairs.Documents have dynamic schema.Dynamic schema means that documents in the same collection do not need to have the same set of fields or structure, and common fields in a collection's documents may hold different types of data.