https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-WEpWH1NHGU
 
What are the different subsets of SQL?
	DDL: consists of the commands that can be used to define the database schema.
	DML: consists of commands that deals with the manipulation of data present in database.
	DCL: inclues commands which deal with rights,permissions and other controls of the database systems
	TCL: includes the commands which mainly deal with the trasaction of database.

Table : A table refers to a collection of data in an organised manner in form of rows and columns.
Filed:	A field refers to the numner of columns in a table

char : char is used for strings of fixed length for e.g char(10) can only store 1 characters and will not be able to store a string of any other length.
varchar2 : varchar2 is used for charater strings of variable length. e.g. varchar2(10) can store any length i.e. 6,8,2 in this variable.

Contraints are used to specify the limit on the data type of the table.It can be specified while creating or altering the table statement.
NOT NULL,UNIQUE,CHECK,DEFAULT,INDEX

Foreign key maintains referential integrity by enforcing a link between the data in two tables.

Cluster Index:
Cluster index is used for easy retrival of data from the database and is faster.
Clustered index alters the way records are stored in a database as it sorts out rows by the column which is set to be clustered index.
One table can only have one clustered index.

Non clustered index:
Is used for easy retrieval of data from the database and is slower.
Non clustered index does not alter the way it was stored but it creates a separate object within a  table which points back to the original table rows after searching.
One table can have many non-clustered indexes

Display current date: select GETDATE()

FUll JION: This join returns all those records which either have a match in the left or the right table.

Index: Performance tunning method allows faster retrieval of records from the table and creates an entry for each value.

Unique index: This index does not allow the field to have duplicate values if the column is unique indexed.If a primary key is defined, a unique index can be applied automatically.

DROP:		Removes a table and it cannot be rolled back from the database.
TRUNCATE:	Removes all rows from the table and cannot rolled back into the database.

BCNF If your database is in 3rd Normal Form there would be some scenarios where anomalies would be present,if you have more than candidate key.Then BCNF comes into role,where you divide your tables further so that there would be only one candidate key present.
What is ACID property in a database?
	Atomicity,Consistency,Isolation,Durability

Triggers in SQL are a special type of stored procedures that are defined to execute automatically in place or after data modifications.
	BEFORE INSERT,AFTER INSERT,BEFORE UPDATE,AFTER UPDATE,BEFORE DELETE,AFTER DELETE
A NULL value is not at all same as that of zero or a blank space.NULL value represents a value which is unavailable,unknown,assigned or not applicable whereas a zero is a number and blank space is a character.

Cross Join:Produces the cross product or cartesian product of two tables.
Natural Join:Based on all the columns having the same name and data types in both the tables.

Correlated Subquery: These are queries which select the data from a table referenced in the outer query.It is not considered as an independent uery as it refers to another table and refers the column in a table.
Non Correlated Subqury: This query is an independent query where the output of subquery is substituted in the main query.
Get count of records in a table
	select * from table1;
	select COUNT(*) FROM table1;

	SELECT rows FROM sysindexes where id= OBEJETC_ID(table1)AND indid < 2;