https://www.guru99.com/sql-interview-questions-answers.html

What are tables and fields?
	A table is a set of data that are organized in a model with Columns and Rows.Table has specified number of column called fields but can have any number of rows which is called record.
-There can be many unique constraint defined per table, but only one Primary key constraint defined per table.
-Inner join:
	Inner jion return rows when there is at least one match of rows between tables.
-Right join:
	Right join return rows which are common between the tables and all rows of Right hand side table. Simply, it returns all the rows from the right hand side table even though there are no matches in the left hand side table.
-Left jion:
	Left jion return rows which are common between the tables and all rows of left hand side table.Simply it returns all the rows from left hand side table even though there are no matches in the Right hand side table.
-Full jion:
	Full join return when there are maching rows in any one of the tables.This means it returns all the rows from the left hand side table and all rows from the right hand side table.
What is normalization?
	Normalization is the process of minimizing redundancy and dependency by organizing fields and table of a database. The main aim of Normalization is to add, delete or modify field that can be made in a single table. 

=>Part 2 SQL query to get organization hierarchy
	with employeecte as (
		select employeeid,employeename,managerid
		from employees
		where employeeid= @id

		union all
		select employees.employeeid,empoyees.employeename,employees.managerid
		from employees jion employeecte on employees.employeeid = employeecte.managerid
	)
select * from table_name where empname like 'A%';

Third highest salary of an employee?
	select top 1 salary from (select top 3 salary from employee_table
	order by salary desc) as emp
	order by salary asc;
Group fucntions work on the set of rows and retunrs one result per group.
AVG,COUNT,MAX,MIN,SUM,VARIANCE
MERGE statement:
Allows conditional update or insertion of data into a table.If performs an UPDATE if a row exits, or an ISERT if the row does not exist.

What is CLAUSE in SQL?
SQL clause helps to limit the result set by providing a condition to the query.A clause helps to filter the rows from the entire set of records.e.g WHERE & HAVING clause.

HAVING CLAUSE can be used only with SELECT statement it is usually used in a GROUP BY clause.
WHERE CLAUSE is applied to each row before they are a part of the GORUP BY function in a query.
LIKE operator is used for pattern matching % it matches zero or more characters.
	select * from students where studentname LIKE 'a%';
_ It matches exactly one character
	select * from student where studentname LIKE 'abc_';
A view is a virtual table which consists of a subset of data contained in a table.Since views are not present,it takes less space to store.View can have data of one or more tables combined and it depends on the relationship.
A stored procedure is a function consists of many SQL statements to access the database system.
AUTO INCEMENT keyword can be used in Oracle and IDENTITY keyword can be used in SQL SERVER.










































